handbook/module-7-cardano-governance/polls.md, before:

# Polls

{% hint style="success" %}
This tutorial requires cardano-node 8.0.0 \
\
[https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases/tag/8.0.0](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases/tag/8.0.0)
{% endhint %}



On cardano-node 8.0.0 we introduced a new subset of commands to conduct polls among stake pool operators. A poll is official when it is signed by a genesis delegate key.&#x20;

### Create a poll

```
cardano-cli governance create-poll \
--question "Best name for a dog?" \
--answer "Cheeto" \
--answer "Ham" \
--answer "Rocco" \
--nonce 1 \
--out-file poll.cbor > poll.json
```

`--nonce` is an optional, yet a recommended option. It takes a UINT,  it is used as a unique identifier so that the same question can be asked at different times.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Poll created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.

{
    "94": {
        "map": [
            {
                "k": {
                    "int": 0
                },
                "v": {
                    "list": [
                        {
                            "string": "Best name for a dog?"
                        }
                    ]
                }
            },
            {
                "k": {
                    "int": 1
                },
                "v": {
                    "list": [
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Cheeto"
                                }
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Ham"
                                }
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Rocco"
                                }
                            ]
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}

Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.

Note: A serialized version of the poll suitable for sharing with participants has been generated at 'poll.cbor'.
```
{% endcode %}

Let's take a look to the serialized version of the poll

```
cat poll.cbor

{
    "type": "GovernancePoll",
    "description": "An on-chain poll for SPOs: Best name for a dog?",
    "cborHex": "a1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f"
}
```

Participants (SPO's) will use `poll.cbor`file to create and submit their responses&#x20;

The _Delegate-key-holder_ proposing the poll will publish the poll in a transaction. To build such transaction we do:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
cardano-cli transaction build \
--babbage-era \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-in $(cardano-cli query utxo --address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) --testnet-magic 42 --out-file  /dev/stdout | jq -r 'keys[0]') \
--change-address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) \
--metadata-json-file poll.json \
--json-metadata-detailed-schema \
--required-signer-hash $(cat delegate-keys/delegate1.hash) \
--out-file question.tx
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
When building the transaction we can use `--required-signer-hash` or `--required-signer` .&#x20;



Since the delegate signing keys are on cold storage and `build` command requires access to a live node, in this example we are using `--required-signer-hash` \
\
To get the hash of a delegate key we run:

```
cardano-cli genesis key-hash --verification-key-file delegate-keys/delegate1.vkey
0f455663bd57b2145bcea12302664a842bd4b8e69a1e05bb9f8e45ed
```
{% endhint %}

\
Sign the transaction with the delegate signing key and with a payment signing key.&#x20;

```
cardano-cli transaction sign \
--tx-body-file question.tx \
--signing-key-file delegate-keys/delegate1.skey \
--signing-key-file utxo-keys/utxo1.skey \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--out-file question.tx.signed
```

When we inspect the transaction (question.tx.signed)&#x20;

```
cardano-cli transaction view --tx-file question.tx.signed
```

we should see something like this: &#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```

certificates: null
collateral inputs: []
era: Babbage
fee: 173729 Lovelace
inputs:
- 14bd4fe1f04829ed6f55350f21f243774e96f0ea9278ac8905e1a0e53dce0e01#0
metadata:
  '94':
  - - 0
    - - Best name for a dog?
  - - 1
    - - - Cheeto
      - - Ham
      - - Rocco
mint: null
outputs:
- address: addr_test1vzm3wju8c3u5w4vdq2ydes73vqz9kfx40j99cwjjvpefpmcg36av4
  address era: Shelley
  amount:
    lovelace: 299999826271
  datum: null
  network: Testnet
  payment credential key hash: b7174b87c47947558d0288dcc3d160045b24d57c8a5c3a52607290ef
  reference script: null
  stake reference: null
reference inputs: []
required signers (payment key hashes needed for scripts):
- 186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee
return collateral: null
total collateral: null
update proposal: null
validity range:
  lower bound: null
  upper bound: null
withdrawals: null
witnesses:
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "240a1e444b9ed4d2080dd8ac731510037ea887dc1be26e8ab99d8c09b13864d9")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "8c92614f0fafd716fbdbb76ba83e6ac8e93d0c593acdc500328d8b0b7595d70f5a8cbbde499d9c0969ec41162f505a93e35d7dc3965f9a18d05a934b428de806")
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "da962fd3e59db09e724d698914a83bf7eacfbdccae07a78957c03b617f06e26e")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "83feb9bbd588d5933b25bad3da341043af088b5ab99e4f332e89f3e525c18a780909f1bc6da7d63372dda47ae901c63ecf23a62082efba62f35ecc424f5db20f")
```
{% endcode %}

Note that required signers and witnesses fields match our delegate keys data, so we are ok. &#x20;

And finally submit the transaction and usual:

```
cardano-cli transaction submit \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-file question.tx.signed
```

We can use _**dbsync**_ to check how it was registered online:

```
cexplorer=# SELECT * FROM tx_metadata WHERE key = 94;
```

```
 id | key |     json                                                              | bytes                                                                                                | tx_id 
----+-----+------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------
 1  | 94  | {"0": ["Best name for a dog?"], "1": [["Cheeto"], ["Ham"], ["Rocco"]]} | \xa1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f | 11 
 (1 row)
```

```
cexplorer=# SELECT * FROM extra_key_witness;
```

```
 id |                            hash                            | tx_id
----+------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 | \x186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee |    11
(1 row)
```

Of course, the hash matches the hash of the delegate key. This way, when SPOs see a poll signed with any of the delegate keys (verified by the delegate key hashes) they know this is an official poll.&#x20;

### Answering the poll

Use `answer-poll` to create a response. You can use the `--answer`option to record your answer right away by providing the index of your response, or omit it to access the interactive method.&#x20;

Note that in any case we are redirecting the output to `poll-answer.json`

The proponents of the poll will have distributed the `poll.cbor` file from above. As an SPO, you will need it to answer the poll. Again, it will look like this:

```
cat poll.cbor

{
    "type": "GovernancePoll",
    "description": "An on-chain poll for SPOs: Best name for a dog?",
    "cborHex": "a1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f"
}
```

#### Using --answer

```
cardano-cli governance answer-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor \
--answer 0 > poll-answer.json
```

In this example we vote for option with index \[0], Cheeto.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Best name for a dog?
→ Cheeto

Poll answer created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.
To be valid, the transaction must also be signed using a valid key
identifying your stake pool (e.g. your cold key).

Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.
```
{% endcode %}

#### Responding interactively

```
cardano-cli governance answer-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor > poll-answer.json
```

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Best name for a dog?
[0] Cheeto
[1] Ham
[2] Rocco

Please indicate an answer (by index): 0

Poll answer created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.
To be valid, the transaction must also be signed using a valid key
identifying your stake pool (e.g. your cold key).


Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.
```
{% endcode %}

#### Submit the response in a transaction

```
cardano-cli transaction build \
    --babbage-era \
    --testnet-magic 42 \
    --tx-in $(cardano-cli query utxo --address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) --testnet-magic 42 --out-file  /dev/stdout | jq -r 'keys[0]') \
    --change-address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) \
    --metadata-json-file poll-answer.json \
    --json-metadata-detailed-schema \
    --required-signer-hash $(cat pools/pool.hex.id) \
    --out-file answer.tx
```

```
cardano-cli transaction sign \
--tx-body-file answer.tx \
--signing-key-file pools/cold1.skey \
--signing-key-file utxo-keys/utxo1.skey \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--out-file answer.tx.signed
```

When we inspect the signed transaction, required signers and witnesses fields should include our cold key signature:

```
cardano-cli transaction view --tx-file answer.tx.signed
```

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
auxiliary scripts: null
certificates: null
collateral inputs: []
era: Babbage
fee: 173377 Lovelace
inputs:
- a218b5e10b821a407b82378daaef83991672ecf0b8eca234569cba73efde1000#0
metadata:
  '94':
  - - 2
    - '"@%\184\148''\143s\204\DEL\129\156=}\230\231\149W>,\ENQ\SYN7q\170S\218\196\189ij\198`"'
  - - 3
    - 0
mint: null
outputs:
- address: addr_test1vzm3wju8c3u5w4vdq2ydes73vqz9kfx40j99cwjjvpefpmcg36av4
  address era: Shelley
  amount:
    lovelace: 299999652894
  datum: null
  network: Testnet
  payment credential key hash: b7174b87c47947558d0288dcc3d160045b24d57c8a5c3a52607290ef
  reference script: null
  stake reference: null
reference inputs: []
required signers (payment key hashes needed for scripts):
- 939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7
return collateral: null
total collateral: null
update proposal: null
validity range:
  lower bound: null
  upper bound: null
withdrawals: null
witnesses:
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "e292c1986cc4882dc187258526da83b80b9905104d661bb9ee3aca81aafe9c9d")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "7a5ca4aab04e58d7d32e5e9ce8cea5db260997e69d2f287d67e2d4421cb6ef9353ebaf18558f6a08604daa18c2b4c81006fa7d30a3f1ffdb8accb0f09a99580f")
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "da962fd3e59db09e724d698914a83bf7eacfbdccae07a78957c03b617f06e26e")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "f99334fa305ea2941b631ab7b2c5badd57234045b6d181dbbb11b68a3c584e80d2bcb56f76a01436e2b5635c43bbeb25fabc23578c2dccac21070d004ceb5602")
```
{% endcode %}

```
cardano-cli transaction submit \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-file answer.tx.signed
```

We can use _**dbsync**_ again to track responses:

```
SELECT * FROM tx_metadata WHERE key = 94;
```

```
 id | key |                                        json                                         |                                                bytes                                                 | tx_id
----+-----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 |  94 | {"0": ["Best name for a dog?"], "1": [["Cheeto"], ["Ham"], ["Rocco"]]}              | \xa1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f |    11
  2 |  94 | {"2": "0x4025b894278f73cc7f819c3d7de6e795573e2c05163771aa53dac4bd696ac660", "3": 0} | \xa1185ea20258204025b894278f73cc7f819c3d7de6e795573e2c05163771aa53dac4bd696ac6600300                 |    12
(2 rows)
```

```
SELECT * FROM extra_key_witness;
```

```
 id |                            hash                            | tx_id
----+------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 | \x186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee |    11
  2 | \x939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7 |    12
(2 rows)
```

#### Verifying Answers <a href="#verifying-answers" id="verifying-answers"></a>

Finally, it’s possible to verify answers seen on-chain using the `governance verify-poll` command. What ‘verify’ means here is two-folds:

* It checks that an answer is valid within the context of a given survey
* It returns the list of signatories key hashes found in the transaction;\
  in the case of a valid submission, one key hash will correspond to a known\
  stake pool id.

```
cardano-cli governance verify-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor \
--tx-file answer.tx.signed
Found valid poll answer with 1 signatories
[
    "939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7"
]
```

#### To test this on a local cluster

{% hint style="info" %}
To practice creating and answering polls you can create a local cluster.
{% endhint %}

The examples above were done with

```
cardano-node --version 
cardano-node 8.0.0 - linux-x86_64 - ghc-8.10 
git rev d78924027e8ffb9c49ea2fc791648bf63d3fc3db
```

To create the local-cluster files please clone cardano-node repo and edit the file [scripts/babbage/mkfiles.sh](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/blob/master/scripts/babbage/mkfiles.sh); you will need to comment (#) the line&#x20;

```
# echo "TestConwayHardForkAtEpoch: 0" >> "${ROOT}/configuration.yaml" 
```

this will make your local cluster start in Babbage era on epoch 0. This is relevant because by default the script starts in Conway era, but transactions won't work in Conway era just yet, so we want to stay in Babbage.&#x20;

When you are ready run the `mkfiles.sh` script and start your nodes.&#x20;

#### Using dbsync on your test?&#x20;

Note that the `configuration.yaml` file produced by mkfiles.sh script does not contain the hashes of the genesis files, but dbsync demands them. Therefore, if you want to use _dbsync_, you will need to manually add the hashes of Byron, Shelley and Alonzo genesis files to the `example/configuration.yaml`file. for example&#x20;

```
cardano-cli byron genesis print-genesis-hash \
--genesis-json example/genesis/byron/genesis.json
f80aef63f3ad1dbd52ac08d783e27f3d94d10ce6904001a0ff98a9f3fb2a1592
```

```
cardano-cli genesis hash \
--genesis example/genesis/shelley/genesis.json
e139930b28e1dbf196f717e3ea8b8e79606a5e64c2d513c1e455a4b20cba3419
```

```
cardano-cli genesis hash \
--genesis example/genesis/shelley/genesis.alonzo.json
b9c80a36b643e1b0be59e5aabe9d5ca705635ac4583ff217ce7283ad96fd7d5c
```

Add the hashes to the configuration file (by default it only contains the paths):

```
...
ByronGenesisFile: genesis/byron/genesis.json
ByronGenesisHash: f80aef63f3ad1dbd52ac08d783e27f3d94d10ce6904001a0ff98a9f3fb2a1592
ShelleyGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.json
ShelleyGenesisHash: e139930b28e1dbf196f717e3ea8b8e79606a5e64c2d513c1e455a4b20cba3419
AlonzoGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.alonzo.json
AlonzoGenesisHash: b9c80a36b643e1b0be59e5aabe9d5ca705635ac4583ff217ce7283ad96fd7d5c
ConwayGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.conway.json
...
```

Finally, it is possible that dbsync complains about StartTime mismatch. If this happens, please make sure to replace the `StartTime` on `Shelley Genesis` with the value from `StartTime` on `Byron Genesis.` &#x20;

Commit message:

GITBOOK-512: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

handbook/module-7-cardano-governance/polls.md, after:

# Polls

{% hint style="success" %}
This tutorial requires cardano-node 8.0.0 \
\
[https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases/tag/8.0.0](https://github.com/input-output-hk/cardano-node/releases/tag/8.0.0)
{% endhint %}



On cardano-node 8.0.0 we introduced a new subset of commands to conduct polls among stake pool operators. A poll is official when it is signed by a genesis delegate key.&#x20;

### Create a poll

```
cardano-cli governance create-poll \
--question "Best name for a dog?" \
--answer "Cheeto" \
--answer "Ham" \
--answer "Rocco" \
--nonce 1 \
--out-file poll.cbor > poll.json
```

`--nonce` is an optional, yet a recommended option. It takes a UINT,  it is used as a unique identifier so that the same question can be asked at different times.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Poll created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.

{
    "94": {
        "map": [
            {
                "k": {
                    "int": 0
                },
                "v": {
                    "list": [
                        {
                            "string": "Best name for a dog?"
                        }
                    ]
                }
            },
            {
                "k": {
                    "int": 1
                },
                "v": {
                    "list": [
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Cheeto"
                                }
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Ham"
                                }
                            ]
                        },
                        {
                            "list": [
                                {
                                    "string": "Rocco"
                                }
                            ]
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}

Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.

Note: A serialized version of the poll suitable for sharing with participants has been generated at 'poll.cbor'.
```
{% endcode %}

Let's take a look to the serialized version of the poll

```
cat poll.cbor

{
    "type": "GovernancePoll",
    "description": "An on-chain poll for SPOs: Best name for a dog?",
    "cborHex": "a1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f"
}
```

Participants (SPO's) will use `poll.cbor`file to create and submit their responses&#x20;

The _Delegate-key-holder_ proposing the poll will publish the poll in a transaction. To build such transaction we do:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
cardano-cli transaction build \
--babbage-era \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-in $(cardano-cli query utxo --address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) --testnet-magic 42 --out-file  /dev/stdout | jq -r 'keys[0]') \
--change-address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) \
--metadata-json-file poll.json \
--json-metadata-detailed-schema \
--required-signer-hash $(cat delegate-keys/delegate1.hash) \
--out-file question.tx
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="info" %}
When building the transaction we can use `--required-signer-hash` or `--required-signer` .&#x20;



Since the delegate signing keys are on cold storage and `build` command requires access to a live node, in this example we are using `--required-signer-hash` \
\
To get the hash of a delegate key we run:

```
cardano-cli genesis key-hash --verification-key-file delegate-keys/delegate1.vkey
0f455663bd57b2145bcea12302664a842bd4b8e69a1e05bb9f8e45ed
```
{% endhint %}

\
Sign the transaction with the delegate signing key and with a payment signing key.&#x20;

```
cardano-cli transaction sign \
--tx-body-file question.tx \
--signing-key-file delegate-keys/delegate1.skey \
--signing-key-file utxo-keys/utxo1.skey \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--out-file question.tx.signed
```

When we inspect the transaction (question.tx.signed)&#x20;

```
cardano-cli transaction view --tx-file question.tx.signed
```

we should see something like this: &#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```

certificates: null
collateral inputs: []
era: Babbage
fee: 173729 Lovelace
inputs:
- 14bd4fe1f04829ed6f55350f21f243774e96f0ea9278ac8905e1a0e53dce0e01#0
metadata:
  '94':
  - - 0
    - - Best name for a dog?
  - - 1
    - - - Cheeto
      - - Ham
      - - Rocco
mint: null
outputs:
- address: addr_test1vzm3wju8c3u5w4vdq2ydes73vqz9kfx40j99cwjjvpefpmcg36av4
  address era: Shelley
  amount:
    lovelace: 299999826271
  datum: null
  network: Testnet
  payment credential key hash: b7174b87c47947558d0288dcc3d160045b24d57c8a5c3a52607290ef
  reference script: null
  stake reference: null
reference inputs: []
required signers (payment key hashes needed for scripts):
- 186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee
return collateral: null
total collateral: null
update proposal: null
validity range:
  lower bound: null
  upper bound: null
withdrawals: null
witnesses:
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "240a1e444b9ed4d2080dd8ac731510037ea887dc1be26e8ab99d8c09b13864d9")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "8c92614f0fafd716fbdbb76ba83e6ac8e93d0c593acdc500328d8b0b7595d70f5a8cbbde499d9c0969ec41162f505a93e35d7dc3965f9a18d05a934b428de806")
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "da962fd3e59db09e724d698914a83bf7eacfbdccae07a78957c03b617f06e26e")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "83feb9bbd588d5933b25bad3da341043af088b5ab99e4f332e89f3e525c18a780909f1bc6da7d63372dda47ae901c63ecf23a62082efba62f35ecc424f5db20f")
```
{% endcode %}

Note that required signers and witnesses fields match our delegate keys data, so we are ok. &#x20;

And finally submit the transaction and usual:

```
cardano-cli transaction submit \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-file question.tx.signed
```

We can use _**dbsync**_ to check how it was registered online:

```
cexplorer=# SELECT * FROM tx_metadata WHERE key = 94;
```

```
 id | key |     json                                                              | bytes                                                                                                | tx_id 
----+-----+------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------
 1  | 94  | {"0": ["Best name for a dog?"], "1": [["Cheeto"], ["Ham"], ["Rocco"]]} | \xa1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f | 11 
 (1 row)
```

```
cexplorer=# SELECT * FROM extra_key_witness;
```

```
 id |                            hash                            | tx_id
----+------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 | \x186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee |    11
(1 row)
```

Of course, the hash matches the hash of the delegate key. This way, when SPOs see a poll signed with any of the delegate keys (verified by the delegate key hashes) they know this is an official poll.&#x20;

### Answering the poll

Use `answer-poll` to create a response. You can use the `--answer`option to record your answer right away by providing the index of your response, or omit it to access the interactive method.&#x20;

Note that in any case we are redirecting the output to `poll-answer.json`

The proponents of the poll will have distributed the `poll.cbor` file from above. As an SPO, you will need it to answer the poll. Again, it will look like this:

```
cat poll.cbor

{
    "type": "GovernancePoll",
    "description": "An on-chain poll for SPOs: Best name for a dog?",
    "cborHex": "a1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f"
}
```

#### Using --answer

```
cardano-cli governance answer-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor \
--answer 0 > poll-answer.json
```

In this example we vote for option with index \[0], Cheeto.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Best name for a dog?
→ Cheeto

Poll answer created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.
To be valid, the transaction must also be signed using a valid key
identifying your stake pool (e.g. your cold key).

Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.
```
{% endcode %}

#### Responding interactively

```
cardano-cli governance answer-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor > poll-answer.json
```

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
Best name for a dog?
[0] Cheeto
[1] Ham
[2] Rocco

Please indicate an answer (by index): 0

Poll answer created successfully.
Please submit a transaction using the resulting metadata.
To be valid, the transaction must also be signed using a valid key
identifying your stake pool (e.g. your cold key).


Hint (1): Use '--json-metadata-detailed-schema' and '--metadata-json-file' from the build or build-raw commands.
Hint (2): You can redirect the standard output of this command to a JSON file to capture metadata.
```
{% endcode %}

#### Submit the response in a transaction

```
cardano-cli transaction build \
    --babbage-era \
    --testnet-magic 42 \
    --tx-in $(cardano-cli query utxo --address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) --testnet-magic 42 --out-file  /dev/stdout | jq -r 'keys[0]') \
    --change-address $(cat utxo-keys/utxo1.addr) \
    --metadata-json-file poll-answer.json \
    --json-metadata-detailed-schema \
    --required-signer-hash $(cat pools/pool.hex.id) \
    --out-file answer.tx
```

```
cardano-cli transaction sign \
--tx-body-file answer.tx \
--signing-key-file pools/cold1.skey \
--signing-key-file utxo-keys/utxo1.skey \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--out-file answer.tx.signed
```

When we inspect the signed transaction, required signers and witnesses fields should include our cold key signature:

```
cardano-cli transaction view --tx-file answer.tx.signed
```

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
auxiliary scripts: null
certificates: null
collateral inputs: []
era: Babbage
fee: 173377 Lovelace
inputs:
- a218b5e10b821a407b82378daaef83991672ecf0b8eca234569cba73efde1000#0
metadata:
  '94':
  - - 2
    - '"@%\184\148''\143s\204\DEL\129\156=}\230\231\149W>,\ENQ\SYN7q\170S\218\196\189ij\198`"'
  - - 3
    - 0
mint: null
outputs:
- address: addr_test1vzm3wju8c3u5w4vdq2ydes73vqz9kfx40j99cwjjvpefpmcg36av4
  address era: Shelley
  amount:
    lovelace: 299999652894
  datum: null
  network: Testnet
  payment credential key hash: b7174b87c47947558d0288dcc3d160045b24d57c8a5c3a52607290ef
  reference script: null
  stake reference: null
reference inputs: []
required signers (payment key hashes needed for scripts):
- 939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7
return collateral: null
total collateral: null
update proposal: null
validity range:
  lower bound: null
  upper bound: null
withdrawals: null
witnesses:
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "e292c1986cc4882dc187258526da83b80b9905104d661bb9ee3aca81aafe9c9d")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "7a5ca4aab04e58d7d32e5e9ce8cea5db260997e69d2f287d67e2d4421cb6ef9353ebaf18558f6a08604daa18c2b4c81006fa7d30a3f1ffdb8accb0f09a99580f")
- key: VKey (VerKeyEd25519DSIGN "da962fd3e59db09e724d698914a83bf7eacfbdccae07a78957c03b617f06e26e")
  signature: SignedDSIGN (SigEd25519DSIGN "f99334fa305ea2941b631ab7b2c5badd57234045b6d181dbbb11b68a3c584e80d2bcb56f76a01436e2b5635c43bbeb25fabc23578c2dccac21070d004ceb5602")
```
{% endcode %}

```
cardano-cli transaction submit \
--testnet-magic 42 \
--tx-file answer.tx.signed
```

We can use _**dbsync**_ again to track responses:

```
SELECT * FROM tx_metadata WHERE key = 94;
```

```
 id | key |                                        json                                         |                                                bytes                                                 | tx_id
----+-----+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 |  94 | {"0": ["Best name for a dog?"], "1": [["Cheeto"], ["Ham"], ["Rocco"]]}              | \xa1185ea200817442657374206e616d6520666f72206120646f673f0183816643686565746f816348616d8165526f63636f |    11
  2 |  94 | {"2": "0x4025b894278f73cc7f819c3d7de6e795573e2c05163771aa53dac4bd696ac660", "3": 0} | \xa1185ea20258204025b894278f73cc7f819c3d7de6e795573e2c05163771aa53dac4bd696ac6600300                 |    12
(2 rows)
```

```
SELECT * FROM extra_key_witness;
```

```
 id |                            hash                            | tx_id
----+------------------------------------------------------------+-------
  1 | \x186c97a1194d2c62e3bfafef7b471cb0bb4ce09322ca44a908e81bee |    11
  2 | \x939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7 |    12
(2 rows)
```

#### Verifying Answers <a href="#verifying-answers" id="verifying-answers"></a>

Finally, it’s possible to verify answers seen on-chain using the `governance verify-poll` command. What ‘verify’ means here is two-folds:

* It checks that an answer is valid within the context of a given survey
* It returns the list of signatories key hashes found in the transaction;\
  in the case of a valid submission, one key hash will correspond to a known\
  stake pool id.

```
cardano-cli governance verify-poll \
--poll-file poll.cbor \
--tx-file answer.tx.signed
Found valid poll answer with 1 signatories
[
    "939b194da1f5620da299f855ca9dca0c5a6b33d2584b7164cc69a3f7"
]
```

####

Terminal 1

```
example/node-spo1.sh
```

Terminal 2

```
example/node-spo2.sh
```

Terminal 3

```
example/node-spo3.sh
```

{% hint style="info" %}
Note that you have 30 seconds to start the 3 nodes&#x20;
{% endhint %}

####

#### Using dbsync on your test?&#x20;

Note that the `configuration.yaml` file produced by mkfiles.sh script does not contain the hashes of the genesis files, but dbsync demands them. Therefore, if you want to use _dbsync_, you will need to manually add the hashes of Byron, Shelley and Alonzo genesis files to the `example/configuration.yaml`file. for example&#x20;

```
cardano-cli byron genesis print-genesis-hash \
--genesis-json example/genesis/byron/genesis.json
f80aef63f3ad1dbd52ac08d783e27f3d94d10ce6904001a0ff98a9f3fb2a1592
```

```
cardano-cli genesis hash \
--genesis example/genesis/shelley/genesis.json
e139930b28e1dbf196f717e3ea8b8e79606a5e64c2d513c1e455a4b20cba3419
```

```
cardano-cli genesis hash \
--genesis example/genesis/shelley/genesis.alonzo.json
b9c80a36b643e1b0be59e5aabe9d5ca705635ac4583ff217ce7283ad96fd7d5c
```

Add the hashes to the configuration file (by default it only contains the paths):

```
...
ByronGenesisFile: genesis/byron/genesis.json
ByronGenesisHash: f80aef63f3ad1dbd52ac08d783e27f3d94d10ce6904001a0ff98a9f3fb2a1592
ShelleyGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.json
ShelleyGenesisHash: e139930b28e1dbf196f717e3ea8b8e79606a5e64c2d513c1e455a4b20cba3419
AlonzoGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.alonzo.json
AlonzoGenesisHash: b9c80a36b643e1b0be59e5aabe9d5ca705635ac4583ff217ce7283ad96fd7d5c
ConwayGenesisFile: genesis/shelley/genesis.conway.json
...
```

Finally, it is possible that dbsync complains about StartTime mismatch. If this happens, please make sure to replace the `StartTime` on `Shelley Genesis` with the value from `StartTime` on `Byron Genesis.` &#x20;
